[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Stacking piles of stones
atop one another is an ancient
practice that's taken
place throughout the world.
These piles are called cairns.
It's a Gaelic word meaning mound
of stones built as a landmark.
And cairns marked the
way for travelers.
They indicated stashes
of food or supplies.
Or when they were painted white,
they were used along the shore
to aid navigation.
I know it brought a sense
of comfort and security
to see one of these
cairns looming ahead.
We all want to know when
we're on the right path going
in the right direction.
We turn to family or
friends for advice.
Or we read research
to gather information
hoping we're on track.
There have been times in my
life when something just clicks.
I know with certainty that
I'm on the right path.
I've compared it to the
feeling of flowing down
a river as opposed to rowing
upstream against the current.
It's a feeling of surety similar
to seeing a cairn up ahead
and knowing that the path will
open up as I move forward.
"Passage to Real
Immunity" will hopefully
provide you with some real
stone cairns of your own.
>> This system of fear has tried
to make you forget what you
know.
And deep inside of
you is the truth
has come through the ages.
The greatest medical tool
you have is your intuition,
is your heart and
your understanding.
And I say that, I
mean, that there
may be someone that
could be in a room
and think I don't know why.
But I really feel like I
need to vaccinate my child.
I wouldn't tell you to go
against that if that's what
naturally is coming to you.
There may be a situation
where a vaccine is
appropriate for your child.
Because that as a parent
and that connection is what
you are being called to.
But if inside if something
is saying do not do this,
there should be nothing
in the world that
makes you override that because
that is your creator, that
is your creation, that is your
spirit, and that is your child
and you in the communication.
That is the most important
communication act.
And if you break that, if
you go against the outcome
can be catastrophic.
Don't put yourself
in that situation.
>> It wouldn't be in our
physical body if there
wasn't something to work with.
We couldn't evolve
spiritually if we
didn't have our physical body.
We need our physical body to
encounter substance to grow.
The glass ceiling isn't real.
And we are not separate
from each other,
that illness is a blessing.
And we have health within us.
Health is not at
the end of a needle.
Health is not in a pill.
Health isn't even in food.
Health is what lives within us.
Health is how we feel every day.
>> The most important message
from the quest for real
immunity was to overcome fear
and to trust your intuition
and to trust mother nature in
her design of both your body
and benign childhood
diseases for a real purpose.
You can combine conventional
and alternative medicine
or you can use both Eastern
and Western methods.
Or you can combine
any combination.
You're the expert
for your family.
You can do this because
you only have one agenda
and that comes from
unconditional love.
So do your homework and
then discern the right path.
In order to be
fully empowered, you
need to search things out in
both your heart and your mind.
And then you'll find your
stone cairns along the way.
Let's hear what Paul
Thomas has to say.
>> It's so funny.
Parents will come in having
done a Google search.
And then somebody
gave me a cup--
"your Google search
does not equal my MD."
However, where do doctors
go for their information?
You can go to MEDLINE,
PubMed, but you can also
just Google it.
And you can
oftentimes-- boom, you
get to all the key articles
and important information.
It's at our fingertips.
I think the difference
sometimes for parents
is they don't have perspective.
So when you read
something online,
you don't have the
history of having
taken care of tens of thousands
or hundreds of thousands
of patients to put what you're
reading in perspective to what
the reality is.
And that's where a good
integrative physician, somebody
who really is open to all
information not just closed
minded on some--
that's a good place to start.
>> Chinese medicine is a form of
medicine that is very different
from what we're used to hearing
as medicine in the West.
The word medicine comes
with a few connotations
that have to do with--
medical interventions, invasive
interventions occasionally,
or medication.
The way the Chinese look
at health in general
makes the system work.
And the view of
health is we're part
of a larger system-- the
microcosm and the macrocosm.
We're not separate,
so knowing this
no one gets sick by lacking
medication or surgery.
Disease is not a lack of
So in this sense, the whole of
the Chinese medicine concept
is knowing your place
within the larger system
and supplementing what needs to
be supplemented to feel healthy
and allowing the body to open
impedance is where they are.
Like if something is stuck
or not working, helping
the body heal there.
Usually, when people
hear about acupuncture,
they think that it's something
separate from Chinese medicine.
There's two different systems.
Or maybe this is a
system in itself.
But basically
acupuncture is a tool
within the Chinese
medical system,
which is a complete whole.
Within it that has acupuncture
body work, herbal medicine,
dietary therapies, and
all the other things
we've mentioned before.
And you get the most
benefit from using as much
of the entire system as you
can or the right therapies
within it, instead of just
going towards the headline.
One of the things that
actually sounds very simple
is understanding how
breath affects my body.
Basic thing,
breathing, everybody
does it to a certain extent.
Otherwise, you wouldn't
be here, but most of us
don't breathe enough.
The breath is tiny.
And instead of having a
full range of movement,
our diaphragms just go--
instead of flowing and
opening and closing normally.
And just being
aware of your breath
and what happens to
it when you get angry,
when you get
excited, when you get
stressed about something,
when you're afraid,
when you're happy--
being aware of your breath
can change your life.
And it's a basic, basic
tenet of Chinese medicine.
>> Allopathic medicine, it still
has a big impact on our health
and survival as a human race.
And for sure, we
need all the trauma
and the acute
interventions that we have.
As you know, I've been
working in hospitals,
I can see how allopathic
medicine has saved lives
right and left.
And, of course, it does have
many rooms of improvement.
But I believe as we go
in knowing and educating
our staff, physicians,
pharmacists,
nurses on not only
energy medicine but all
the alternative medicine that
is also effective even in acute
care.
>> My own education consisted of
four years of homeopathy school
after my undergraduate degree.
Then I went on to earn a PHD.
From the moment I started
homeopathy school,
my entire philosophy
about health changed.
I was never the same
person after that.
Northwestern Academy
of Homeopathy
is an excellent school.
It was founded by Val
Ohanian and Eric Solomon.
>> The beauty of homeopathy is
it can take that into account
and help lift fear at the same
time as helping lift other
things by bringing the
body back into balance.
People say things like
I'm not so afraid anymore,
whether it's unreasonable fear
of fire, burglars breaking in,
nuclear disaster.
And that lessening fear
gives them incredible freedom
and the heal.
>> But for real healing to
happen the person has to heal
themself and really that's a
lot of what homeopathy is about
too.
My job is just to be present
and listen and create
an environment where people
are able to go deep and access
the information
that is inside them.
And it needs to come out in
order for healing to occur.
And it's an amazing profession.
And I'm always grateful
that I get to do this.
>> Well, what we find is that
homeopathic medicines actually
strengthen the immune system
to get it into balance with
itself.
And I think that's critical.
So the immune
system doesn't under
react, leaving people
susceptible to illness,
doesn't overreact
causing allergy,
and doesn't attack itself.
And so remedies
are designed to do
that to support the
healing mechanism
in the body and the immune
system is key in that.
Training in homeopathy is
not dissimilar from training
that doctors get or physician
assistants get, in the sense
that people have to have
some background in science.
And then spend
four years learning
about homeopathic medicines,
what the medicines are,
how to match them to humans.
And then spend two years in
an intensive clinical process,
where they actually
work with clients
to help improve their health.
At the end of the
four years, they're
able to go out and practice.
>> Homeopathy is
based on the law--
we call it the Law of Similars.
And as I understand it, the Law
of Similars is based on love.
It's an expression of love.
So instead of fighting
something, pushing it,
suppressing it--
it's being accepted
for what it is.
It's being mirrored
for what it is
and is being embraced as it is.
And actually we are saying
with a remedy this is exactly
as it should be.
And we just support this.
And then the paradoxical
response what we can see
is that then the
situation can change.
As long we are suppressing
something-- try it
with your kid.
As long as you're suppressing
it, it will fight back.
And as soon as you
kind of accept it
for what it is then
change can happen.
So it's an expression of love.
I believe that's what it is.
So it's true on many levels
like if you have a fever
and because there is
an infection going on,
this fever is exactly
what it should be.
It's the organism's wisdom
to deal with the situation.
It knows how to handle.
We don't have to tell
it how to do that.
All we can do is that
if the organism isn't
able to kind of overcome it,
we give it this is resonance,
this similars to kind of support
it in what it's already doing.
But that's not only true
on the level of symptoms,
it's also true on
the level of diseases
and the role they play in
the evolution of mankind.
Diseases like malaria,
diseases like HIV/AIDS.
They bring about
change in humanity.
And there is a reason why
these diseases are there,
whether intentional or not.
But you can just
see the consequences
they have not only in terms
of bringing about suffering
and illness but also about
bringing about change
in humanity, in society,
in the collective,
and in the individual.
>> I love Harry's explanation
of like treating like.
Homeopathy really is a
deep method of healing.
The process is individualized
for each person.
I could take 10 cases, each
with the same diagnosis.
And they would receive 10
different remedies depending
on their internal state.
The way we assess that state is
by understanding exactly what
it's like to be that person.
Through this careful
case taking process,
we learn what the person
likes and dislikes,
what makes them
happy or sad, what
the worries are, the history,
the physical symptoms.
What's the world
that they live in?
Through this attentive
listening process,
a person feels truly
heard and understood
without any judgment.
This art and science of
understanding, truly being seen
is impart curative as well.
>> I resisted homeopathy
with every fiber of my being
because it seemed
ridiculous to me.
And I didn't want to go into
health care, but I got very ill
and was in bed for two
years with something
that was, a long
time ago, would have
been diagnosed as chronic
fatigue syndrome most likely.
And after two years of
struggling to get well,
going to doctors who
said there's nothing
we can do with you.
We think it's psychological.
Go to a therapist--
it wasn't a
psychological problem.
And, finally, I met someone
who said you need homeopathy.
And I thought, "Oh, no."
but I was desperate.
And I went to a doctor who could
see that my symptoms were very
clear, gave me the
homeopathic medicine that
matched my symptom state.
I was on my feet in a
week and well in a month.
And I was intrigued,
so I started studying
and found it is really a
reliable system of healing.
A few decades ago, if
your kid got the measles,
it was a cold with spots.
You send your kid to bed.
Good, you'll never get it again.
He's got it.
And you know what?
There were
developmental milestones
that come along with getting
the disease and so forth.
It's actually a positive thing,
not something to be feared.
But now that we have
a multi-billion dollar
international vaccine
industry, something
on the order of
$30 billion a year
and projected over the
next five to eight years
to more than double to
somewhere around $70 billion.
Way too much money to let
something like science or truth
get in the way.
And I'm being a little
facetious, of course,
but there's some truth to that.
>> In light of some of the
facts that Alan brought up,
I think lots of parents are
really struggling with this
decision about whether to
vaccinate or not vaccinate.
Instead of polarizing around
this topic, what if there were
a solution that was
both safe and effective
and has been around
for over 200 years
and endorsed in many
other countries?
>> So a little background--
I am a chiropractor.
So I come from a very
naturally minded background.
And so when we found
out we were pregnant,
I wasn't really
interested, especially
in the full vaccine schedule
as the CDC has right now.
My husband, though,
that's all he knows.
And so we started off just
with conversations about what
we want to do with her.
I knew I didn't want
to do the CDC schedule,
but I was open to
other interpretations.
He wasn't sure where
he wanted to be.
So we kind of started doing
some research together.
He started looking up all of
the vaccines in his schedule.
What's in the vaccines, the
purpose of the vaccines.
And he came to the
conclusion by herself
that he also was not interested
in the current CDC schedule.
>> My oldest son born in 2012
had a reaction to the DTap.
At the time, we had
questions about vaccination.
I did my research, my
digging, asking questions
of family history, just
wanting to be clear
because I had my reservations.
But I went ahead and did it--
fear outweighing my intuition.
The first change
was an interruption
in the gastrointestinal
processes.
He stopped being able to go.
He would go for two weeks
without having a bowel
movement.
He didn't necessarily have
pain, any visible pain.
But you could tell
that he was stopped up.
He was very stopped up.
And he wouldn't eat.
He was breastfeeding
primarily at that time.
A pediatrician I took him
to said, oh, this is normal.
You're giving him breast milk.
It's like clean burning fuel.
It's OK, it's OK, give him some
apple juice or some prunes.
This is normal.
And everything in me said, how
can this possibly be normal?
This is an interruption of a
very important detoxification
process.
>> There is no stronger force on
this Earth than a mother's love
for her child--
none.
I have felt it with
my own children,
and I've seen it in my clients.
I have seen mothers
who have lost
sleep, who have slept
on the floor, who
have held sick children.
There's just nothing
stronger than a mother's love
for their child.
And that instills trust.
There's a visceral response
between mother and child.
It's an actual
physical response.
If your child is
hurting, you hurt.
And if your child is
happy, you're happy.
And its physiological--
it's not something
you can stop from happening.
The Chinese have a saying, if
you want to cure the child,
heal the mother.
>> With encouragement,
I gave the second DTaP.
And that's when we saw
neurological changes.
He stopped babbling.
He was a very vocal, very
active, very interactive child.
All of that stopped within
48 hours of that second DTaP.
He would make kind of
gritting motions with his jaw.
And his musculature
seemed to be trapped.
Again, like I said,
he stopped babbling.
He just seemed unhappy.
He became more withdrawn
for a six-month-old.
He would react intensely
to loud noises.
And actually to
this day he still
has some sensory things that
go on for him-- loud noises,
certain lights are a
problem for him to this day.
So I prompted my husband
to get certified in HP.
He being a homeopath
could do that.
And once the detoxing
protocol was complete,
we started doing
HP with our son.
And interestingly,
doing HP with him
brought out a little more
detoxification opportunities.
Because I noticed he
would take a remedy
and that particular
remedy, especially
if it was something with
the respiratory system,
he would react in a way kind
of detoxing part of that DTaP.
>> Homeoprophylaxis is
a subset of homeopathy.
Homeopathy itself is the
treatment of like with like.
Hippocrates himself saw
that if a child fell down
with seizures, he could give
a plant called hyoscyamus.
And that plant, which causes
seizures, could cure the child
or it would kill the child
because it was too strong.
So along came Samuel Hahnemann,
a medical doctor, a chemist,
a linguist, who recognized
this and decided
to dilute that
hyoscyamus or any element
in nature so that there
were no molecules left
of the original substance.
And by giving that
solution, you then
give the energy of that
plant or mineral or animal
without anything material.
So that there's no
danger there's no side m
but there's a curative
process that takes place.
And that's really the
basis of homeopathy--
small doses, like treating like,
and looking at the whole case
to determine what in
nature matches this case.
Homeoprophylaxis is the use
of diluted disease products
to familiarize the
system with the disease
prior to encountering
it in nature.
So that when you do
encounter it in nature,
you can either mount
an immune response
or you can repel the
disease completely.
[MUSIC PLAYING]